Asylum is a native Rust app. To run it you need a Rust toolchain and git. That's it for the core.
From the repository root, one command builds and launches the app: cargo run, dash p, app.
The first build pulls the UI component library and the terminal engine, so it takes a while. Later launches are fast.
The dev build installs itself as asylumdev — deliberately, so it never collides with a released copy installed as asylum. Same behavior either way.
And here's the app. Let's take the tour.
Up top is the header, with the command palette and quick-open for jumping around fast.
On the left, the activity switcher and the project and task navbar — where your projects and their tasks live, with pins for the ones you use most.
The big area in the middle is the routed main view. Right now it's on Tasks — the fan-out board, the home screen.
Asylum routes between thirteen surfaces — Tasks, Diff, Search, Notes, Integrations, Terminal, Editor, Preview, Browser, Plugins, Accounts, Inbox, and Settings. We'll visit each across the series.
The footer is your status line — what's happening at a glance.
Two more commands worth knowing: cargo build compiles the whole workspace, and cargo test runs the suite.
And command-comma opens Settings — an editor over your settings file. We'll live there next episode.
That's the build and the tour. Next we open a real project and pick which agents to race.
See you in episode two.